# 07/13/2022

# Agenda

### Current

* [Letourneau paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9615534) and this [Github repo](https://github.com/heistp/sce-l4s-bakeoff) examine the major security considerations of L4S, using a similar setup we were thinking of using
* Possible other L4S direction (below)
  * Are there more NUC/test computers available for this?
* Autonomous system boundary detection?
* USENIX reimbursement status

#### More L4S Research Possibilities:

Measure real world practical **benefit** (vs. readiness) of deploying L4S?

- e.g., Study of any seen improvements with different application/flow types, throughput, networks (maybe mobile?) etc. (maybe leverage Netrics?)
  - Can create figures [such as these](https://huitema.wordpress.com/2022/07/05/a-low-latency-internet-with-l4s/) for these differences:
  - Currently, all L4S measurement papers simulate traffic (iperf3, data transfer), and also are not scaled across multiple senders/receivers
- We also probably have to simulate, but can replicate various # hops that support/do not support L4S (IP ECN bits and TCP Flags) and measure the observed performance benefit/detriment
- **Questions that need answering (i.e., is this possible/a good idea at all?):**
  - Because TCP Prague is not rolled out yet, cannot directly ping/measure from current endpoints; ***can we use middleboxes to simulate this? (maybe similar setup to [this](https://www.ietf.org/proceedings/96/slides/slides-96-l4s-4.pdf))*** 
    - ***How much overhead/latency is introduced by using a middlebox to parse packets from L4S capable sender/non-L4S receiver and send back with L4S support?***
      - Am thinking this mostly probably depends on the middlebox-to-destination link?
        - (Do not want to introduce much latency unrelated to the source request)
        - Will parsing overhead for converting to L4S be non-negligible? 
        - Should be dedicated to only handle one operation (e.g., video stream, web surfing) at a time?
          - Necessitates multiple middleboxes to simulate and perform multiple/concurrent/realistic browsing?

### Notes

##### Things to ask at L4S wg meeting:

* In L4S implementation of Non-Queue-Building (NQB) PHB, does this work with Dual Queue s.t. both the L4S queue and Classic queue have a NQB and QB (queue building) queue as well (4 queues total in the greater dual L4S queue)?
* Testing L4S security (QUIC, VPN interactions, etc.)
* (If Nick thinks L4S benefit idea is good) Testing L4S benefit

### TODO
