# 07/06/2022

# Agenda

### Current

- Measuring RTT:
  
  - Tried using the `tcpopt` field to set timing information, hosts did not reply back/set these fields with any update
  - Current: local time measurements (e.g., time taken at time of send, time taken at time of recv, calc. difference, easy to implement)
    - However this is not very precise/haven't found a L4S host to measure against (to see the difference between L4S and classic traffic)

- Doubtful of the readiness of L4S at scale --> if we find very few hosts that support L4S, will not have much to write about --> repeat of Bauer paper (just ECN measurement)?

- How do *we* define readiness? (Capability? Deployment? Configuration?)

### Upcoming/Planned TODO

#### L4S Direction:

- Attend IETF L4S meeting on Thursday?
  
  - Show figures that show IP ECN/TCP ECN Flags being bleached/restored at different points?
  - Could also clarify the necessary behavior for ECN as well as L4S:
    - e.g., -- Do the IP ECN bits in the ToS field need to be preserved once ECN compliance has been established at the TCP level?
  - How does *this team* define readiness?
    - Is it only preserving the IP ToS field ECN bits as mentioned in the email?

- Setup toy router in lab that we know correctly sets/obeys/implements L4S, and test sending L4S packets and non-L4S packets to get a sense of expected behavior?
  
  - Could also use a cloud box (e.g., EC2) to test how this behavior should look with higher latency (not sure if will have the correct permissions to set kernel stuff for networking however)

#### Wider Measurement (New Direction)

- Read over both Netalyzer and ZMap papers:
  
  - Which implementation would be most useful/interesting to a reader/the community?
    
    - ZMap seems possible/decently straightforward, can use existing scanning/packet sending functionality and then just create an output module/parser to measure data from the headers
      
      - With this, can mimic Bauer ECN readiness paper
    
    - Netalyzer paper -- closer to hackathon idea, consumer based testing of if their network supports L4S

- Also read new SIGCOMM paper by one of Zakir's students that predicts IPv4 series across all ports (https://lizizhikevich.github.io/assets/papers/gps.pdf)
  
  - Cites Bano/Zakir's paper "Scanning the Internet for Liveliness" that discusses "the presence of one port on a host can be used to predict the presence of other ports" -- **is there prior work/has it been looked at to have similar patterns in transport?/is this worth pursuing?**

- Maybe uninformed question, but pros/cons/thoughts on live scanning/pinging versus studying a dataset (e.g., Censys)?
  
  - Doesn't appear ZMap has functionality/module to output the full IP header, only src and dest ([zmap/packet.c at main · zmap/zmap · GitHub](https://github.com/zmap/zmap/blob/main/src/probe_modules/packet.c))

- **Tool checking for compatibility/adoption/readiness for multiple protocols**
  
  - Presenting data similar to Netalyzer paper (?)

#### Fallback

- Fallback revisiting measurements in Bauer paper:
  
  - Need rationale for revisiting

#### Misc.

* USENIX-Security travel/Form logistics

* Per Janos:

```
plan of what you should accomplish in the summer and Fall quarters.
You should write a very short summary, and send it to Megan Woodward
```

# Notes

#### Reading List:

* Bauer ECN Readiness Paper: https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/2068816.2068833

* Traffic Refinery: https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3491052

* Mapping Diffserv to IEEE 802.11: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8325/



#### Venues

* SIGCOMM (January)

# TODO

* Consider benefits of partial deployment of L4S in routers (some have, some don't, performance impacts)
  
  * See if can observe if and where partially deployed
    
    * Stuart Cheshire: 
      
      - Don't need every hop, typical user, one hop bottleneck, if it's in one modem on the route, it's still useful
      
      - A single bad router messes up L4S
        
        - Maybe define two terms:
        
        - Capable: Rolled out
        
        - Ready: Not doing anything, but not breaking by bleaching ECN bits
          
          - Would like whole internet to be ready, and as much as possible L4S capable
    
    * Bob Briscoe:
      
      * L4S readiness for TCP is different than for example QUIC
        
        - --> Network readiness; if I as a business control endpoints, what will the network do?
        
        - DiffServ codepoint (NQB PHB)
        
        - Tracebox, TCPTrace
        
        - Not specifically measuring L4S readiness, but lots of similarities: [Bob Briscoe's publications](https://bobbriscoe.net/pubs.html#measure-generalized-ecn)
    
    * Hackathon, Neal Cardwell trying to look at implementing AccECN for BBR
  
  * How effective is L4S in partial deployment? Good enough to achieve overall goals? Or need widespread deployment? Or just at bottlenecks? (etc.)

* Are there things that have changed since 2004 that warrant redo of the study in this paper (https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/1028788.1028835)? Extend to other protocols (this is just TCP)

* QUIC and L4S interactions (may not be possible? encrypted transport and multiplexed streams in dual queue is messy)
